are you preparing for your second speech
in Toastmasters level one writing a
speech with
purpose if so you have come to the right
place because in this video I am going
to break down everything you need to
know in preparing for this speech now in
a recent Toast Masters video that's
going to be popping up here I talked
about how I'm just now embracing the
pathways education program which is a
little embarrassing because I have been
a Toastmaster for a decade but finally
after doing the print manual competent
communication competent leadership I
decided it was time to finally stop
procrastinating and take on Pathways and
the fun thing is you get to come along
with me so I recently had my Icebreaker
preparation video and then I did my
Icebreaker speech and now I'm working on
the second speech and as I'm preparing
for that I wanted to share a few
important things that you can leverage
as well now if you're watching this
video you've probably already done your
toast Master's Icebreaker speech so
congratulations that is a huge
accomplishment it is a difficult thing
to do giving our first speech at
Toastmasters and the fact you've done it
no matter how it went whether it went
really well or not so great you should
be proud of your yourself give yourself
a pat on the back for getting through it
and now the pressure is off the
floodgates are open and you can take on
speech after speech because you have
taken that first important step now one
of the big differences in the second
speech is that the timing is adjusted so
in the Icebreaker it's 4 to 6 minutes
and for this second speech writing a
speech with purpose it's 5 to 7 minutes
what you need to know is that if you
were short on time or just over that 4
minute Mark for the Icebreaker speech
you're going to want to lengthen your
next presentation because 5 to S minutes
is a little bit extra that extra minute
is significant and so keep that in mind
as you're building this speech according
to Toast Masters Pathways
education the second speech is all about
organization you want to create a well
organized speech and Toastmasters
mentions that there's a number of ways
you can do this
chronologically topical speeches spatial
speeches there's a number of different
categories but the most important thing
for you to know is that your speech has
an
introduction a body and a
conclusion those three elements are very
key and what you should focus on for
this speech strong introductions
typically introdu produce something
unique in order to hook the audience's
attention what many amateur speakers do
and I believe this is a mistake is they
start with formalities such as Mr
Toastmaster fellow Toast Masters welcome
guests today I'm going to talk about
yada yada yada and they introduce it
formally instead by asking a question
right off the Hop such as why is public
speaking the number one most common
personal fear in the
world now you get your audience
thinking they're starting to get go
through that process and you've hooked
their attention early on and that's one
of the keys because people have short
attention spans so the quicker you can
get their attention the more likely
they're going to pay attention for your
entire speech from there the body of the
speech is going to have the bulk of your
information and the conclusion should
wrap everything up nicely before you
begin the process you want to ask
yourself three important questions
question number one what is the most
important thing you want to say question
two why does it matter to the audience
question three what is it that you want
people to take away from your
presentation these are key questions
that when I started public speaking I
didn't go through this
process I gave a presentation because I
wanted to share what I wanted to share
but I was selfish in my intent all I
cared about is that I did a good job I
wasn't thinking about what is the
audience getting from this
presentation and it's so important if
you want to create great presentations
that really stick with your audience you
need to be thinking about your audience
so those three questions will really
help set you up for Success on this
assignment so for my second speech that
I'm doing in Pathways the title is be
interested not
interesting so if I were to go through
the process and answer those three
questions my answer to number one would
be the most important thing I want the
audience to get is that asking questions
is the key to impact communication
question number two why does it matter
to the audience the answer there because
by asking more questions they will
become more impactful communicators and
question number three what do I hope
their takeaway is I hope that they walk
away from my presentation and start to
ask more questions in their daily
conversation those are the answers to my
three and how I will guide myself into
taking on the second spe speech for my
second speech I've decided to go with
the topical organizational structure so
I'll start with my introduction and then
I will introduce three topics number one
asking questions in one-on-one
conversations number two asking
questions via social media and number
three asking questions to an audience
when it comes to giving a bigger
presentation my advice to you here is to
go through through the same process
answer those three questions think about
a topic that is passionate to you and
something that you want to teach or
instruct the audience decide on one of
the organizational structures that
Toastmasters points out hopefully
there's something right away that clicks
depending what your subject matter is
and then begin to organize your speech
for how you want to present it now many
new speakers will still be writing out
their full speech word for word and this
is only your second speech so if that's
the case for you don't stress you've got
to have your own process but here's what
I would encourage you the ultimate goal
with Toast Masters is to eventually get
to the point where you don't need any
notes you can simply stand in front of
your audience and give a
presentation so if you're able to Fast
Track toward that goal there are things
you can do now that will be easier to
detach from those notes so instead of
writing out your speech word for word
the entire thing there's a couple things
you could write out word for word the
first is the
introduction and hopefully you can
memorize that and you don't need to read
it but just in case it can be there on a
piece of paper in case you freeze in
front of that audience but then from
there if you have
subtopics don't write all of the words
out word for word simply have bullet
points that are ideas which will trigger
your memory as you're giving the
presentation so the example I just gave
I would have perhaps my introduction
written out word for word off to the
side from there I would have three
bullet points the first is one-on-one
conversations and I may have a line or
two about the Reas research that backs
up what I'm talking about but I wouldn't
write my full sentences verbatim as I'm
going to present them I could have then
a second bullet point on social media
and a third bullet point on greater
presentations and then my concluding
statement can also be written out word
for
word as I'm practicing the goal is to
try to get as comfortable as possible
with not reading off of a piece of paper
again if you need to do this because
it's only your second speech I totally
understand but start to build those
habits start to practice your speech
enough that you can pretty quickly
detach from those notes because by doing
so when we don't rely on notes that is
when we can really unlock the craft and
the magic of public speaking through
body language eye contact vocal variety
and it's good to EST Lish these habits
early on the Toast Masters curriculum
has a worksheet that will help you build
out these bullet points and that might
be a good starting point for the
information you bring in on the day of
your speech okay so you've organized
your speech you've come up with your
idea you've understood what you want the
audience to take away from it here is my
final tip
practice practice practice practice and
don't just practice 10 times the day
before the
speech give yourself some time two weeks
out once a day practice this is a 5 to
seven minute speech that's only 5 to
seven minutes that you're taking out of
each day it's very manageable maybe it's
the first thing you do each morning get
in the habit of putting in the Reps even
though I have been a Toastmaster for 10
years and I'm just starting the pathways
program now I'm about to give my second
spe speech in a week's
time and I'm already going through the
process of practicing on a regular basis
because I want it to become familiar
once a day I'm going through this two
weeks leading up so what that means is
on the day of my Toastmasters meeting
that's just another day that's day 15 of
rehearsing my speech but now it's in
front of an audience but I've built a
level of comfort and confidence and I
think that this is a really good
approach after we built the speech give
ourselves about 2 weeks to practice once
per day and I guarantee your confidence
will Skyrocket I hope this video on
preparing for your second speech writing
a speech with purpose within level one
of Toast Masters has been beneficial to
you let me know in the comments are you
taking on this speech how are you
feeling do you have questions for me
let's keep the communication going as I
mentioned I am going to give this second
Peach pretty soon at my local Toast
Masters Club I plan to record it and to
share it with all of you and use this
content as a way that you can learn as I
also explore this Toastmasters Journey
along
Pathways if you have not already done so
please subscribe to my channel it is the
best way you can support my channel
maybe you've watched a few videos and
you haven't subscribed yet now is the
time to subscribe and check out this
video that's popping up this was my
Icebreaker spe Peach that I recently did
at my Toast Masters Club what do you
think how did I do let me know in the
comments thank you for watching this
video